Technical term	:	Description
Accessibility and inclusivity	:	Affordances for people with disabilities to equally perceive, understand, navigate, and interact with technology and digital tools.
Agile UX	:	A working method that brings together Agile software development and UX practice.
Behavioural science	:	Explores the cognitive processes within people and their behavioral interactions.
Business modelling	:	A high-level description of how an organisation creates, delivers, and captures value, in economic, social, cultural or other contexts.
Case study	:	A report used to generate an in-depth, multi-faceted understanding of a complex issue in its real-life context.
Critical design	:	A design practice that makes aspects of the future physically present to provoke a reaction.
Critical thinking	:	A method for evaluating and analysing problems, ideas, and different situations to build a rigorous understanding before reaching the optimal solution.
Critical writing	:	Developing a reasoned argument using the five ‘Ws’ of Who, What, When, Where, Why, and How. 
Design for social innovation	:	Design that challenges existing socio-economic and political paradigms.
Design kit	:	A set of low-fidelity tools that can be applied to spark creativity and collaboration.
Design sprints	:	A methodology for solving problems through designing, prototyping, and testing ideas with users.
Dieter Rams	:	A German industrial designer who is closely associated with the consumer products company Braun.
Ethics	:	involves the application of fundamental principles to research activities which include the design and implementation of research, respect towards society and others, especially vulnerable people.
Heuristics	:	A mental shortcut commonly used to simplify problems and avoid cognitive overload.
Holistic	:	characterised by the belief that the parts of something are interconnected and can be explained only by reference to the whole.
Ideation	:	The concise way of describing the process of identifying good ideas through sessions such as sketching and mindmapping.
Iteration	:	The active process of learning and adjusting
Kanban	:	A scheduling system for lean manufacturing developed by Taiichi Ohno, an industrial engineer at Toyota.
Lean Canvas	:	A one-page business plan template created by Ash Maurya that helps deconstruct ideas into their key assumptions.
Machine learning	:	A branch of artificial intelligence (AI) and computer science which focuses on the use of data and algorithms to imitate the way that humans learn, gradually improving its accuracy.
Marketing	:	The activities a company undertakes to promote the buying or selling of a product or service.
Metrics	:	Measures of quantitative assessment commonly used for assessing, comparing, and tracking performance or production.
People-centered design	:	An approach to problem-solving commonly used in process, product, service and system design, management, and engineering frameworks that develops solutions to problems by involving the human perspective and emotion in all steps of the problem-solving process.
Pitching	:	A presentation to introduce a business idea in a limited amount of time.
Problem statement	:	A short, clear explanation of how to approach a challenge, and the intervention required to create a positive outcome.
Prototyping and modelling	:	A low-fidelity physical experience of a product or service used as part of a design process.
Qualitative research	:	A method that aims to gather and analyse non-numerical data in order to gain an understanding.
Quantitative research	:	The study of information formed from a deductive approach that can be counted or measured.
Reflective practice	:	Where a designer reflects on what they have learnt and what it means to them.
Reflexive practice	:	Where the designer considers implications from what they have learnt in the wider context they work within.
Rhetoric	:	The art of persuasion, which along with grammar and logic, is one of the three ancient arts of discourse.
Rigour	:	The quality of being extremely thorough, exhaustive, or accurate.
Service context	:	A set of dimensions to holistically define the value ecosystem, the user context, strategic context, business context and the capability context.
Service design	:	Design within existing socio-economic and political paradigms.
Speculative design	:	A design practice that is concerned with future design proposals of a critical nature popularised by Anthony Dunne and Fiona Raby.
Stakeholder	:	Any person, people or groups who are positively or negatively impacted by a project, initiative, policy or organisation.
Strategy	:	A set of long term choices made to distinguish a company from its competitors by being unique.
User experience design	:	Any and all interactions between humans and technology.
User flow	:	A visual representation of a system typically shown using diagrams, wireframes, prototypes, flowcharts, and other tools.
Value proposition	:	A company’s statement of intent to deliver the full mix of benefits or economic value which it promises to deliver to the current and future customers who will buy their products and/or services.
Wicked problems	:	A problem that is difficult or impossible to solve because of incomplete, contradictory, and changing requirements that are often difficult to recognise.
Wireframe	:	A low-fidelity layout of a product or service that visualises the user experience interface elements.
Workshop	:	Instructor-led experiential activities used for collaboration and co-creation in learning and development programs.
