Technical term	:	Description
Colour separation	:	The process of separating colours into their basic elements.
Cromalin	:	Cromalin proofs are the product of a proofing process. They are used to approve offset CMYK printing before going on press. Cromalin is a proprietary brand name and process created by duPont.
Crop marks	:	Lines put onto the pages to show where the document or print will be trimmed.
Die cut	:	Refers to a precise, razor-sharp steel blade that allows multiple pieces of the same shape to be created in an efficient and uniform manner.
Dot gain	:	A term used when dots are printed larger than they should.
Embossing	:	The process of creating raised relief images on paper and other materials. The design will bulge out of the paper.
Finishing	:	The finishing touches of a print (for example, cutting the crop lines and adding protective gloss).
Ghosting	:	On a printed image, another lighter image in the same print is called ghosting because of the lighter, ghostly finish.
Litho	:	Lithography. The image is placed on the lithography plate, inked and then printed onto the paper. It’s a fast and smooth printing process.
Metallic ink	:	Made with powdered metal or pigments that reflect to make text look metallic. The most common colours used are silver and gold.
Overprinting	:	Any additional printing over an area that’s already been done.
Proofing	:	The best way to avoid expensive mistakes in printing. It’s important to pay close attention to the proofs you receive to ensure the design, copy and colour has no errors. 
Ream	:	500 sheets of paper. 
Registration	:	To accurately position an image or text onto paper, register marks are used as reference points to help make sure the printing work is accurate at every step.
UV varnish	:	A thin coating which is applied to a printed sheet for protection and appearance. It's dried immediately by UV light.
Bleed	:	After paper has been printed, the inks may run over the trim marks of the paper. This is known as ‘bleeding.’
Trim	:	This is the line cut to produce the finished size. The trim cuts through the bleed area to ensure a continuous and sharp edge around a design. 
Slug	:	The slug is the area outside the bleed and is mainly extra space for utility and any notes you may need during production that you wouldn't want to print. Unlike bleed, the slug is not necessary but can be helpful on certain projects.
