Technical term	:	Description	
Affordance	:	The quality or property of an object that defines its possible uses or makes clear how it can or should be used.	
Bill of Materials (BOM)	:	A table containing a list of the components and the quantity of each required to produce an assembly. A costed BOM includes pricing information. An indented BOM indicates how different components and sub assemblies relate to one another and the order in which they are assembled.	
Brief	:	Instructions and requests provided to design team prior to the commencement of a project. The format can vary and may range from informal & verbal, to comprehensive document.	
CAD	:	Computer-aided design is software used to assist with design and documentation.	
CMF	:	Colour, material, finish.	
CNC	:	Computer-numerically-controlled. Refers to various machinery used to produce prototypes, tools and components.	
Concept design	:	Early-stage design, not all aspects are resolved, however overall intent or direction should be apparent.	
Dimension	:	Distance or measurement.	
Ergonomics	:	Application of principles that consider the effective, safe and comfortable use of a design by humans. An example would be the design of a handle based on anthropometric data and with subsequent usability testing.	
Exploded view	:	Visual representation of an assembly, showing some or all of the components separated to illustrate the parts and their relationships to one another.	
Feasibility Study	:	A feasibility study is an evaluation and analysis of the potential of a proposed project, based on extensive investigation and research to support the process of decision making.	
Finish	:	Surface treatment of component. Maybe functional and/or cosmetic, examples include polishing, painting and anodizing.	
Form	:	The three-dimensional equivalent of Shape.	
Form study	:	Type of prototype used to assess the external form of the design, usually full size, often in a single colour or with minimal cosmetic finishes. The ‘clays’ used in automotive design are an example.	
Front end	:	Preliminary stages of the design process, typically where overall configuration and desired appearance are established.	
General Assembly (GA)	:	A drawing or CAD model illustrating all the components of a finished product and their relationship to one another. May incorporate a bill of materials (BOM).	
Human Factors	:	A phrase largely interchangeable with ‘ergonomics’, human factors relates to consideration of human users in the design of a product and environment. Some people make a distinction that ergonomics more specifically relates to the physical association between people and products.	
Intellectual property (IP)	:	Characteristics of a design the owner may wish to protect from unauthorized use. Strategies include trade secrets and formal, legal IP protection such as utility patents & design registration.	
Model (including CAD)	:	Representation of a design. May refer to a physical item or a representation within computer software e.g. CAD model	
Mood board	:	Collection of images gathered at the outset of a project to help clarify and communicate aspects of the aesthetic of the yet-undesigned product. Interchangeable with theme board.	
Original Design Manufacturer (ODM)	:	Company that designs and produces goods to be sold by other brands. The design may be initiated by the ODM or may be to meet a specification provided by a brand.	
Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM)	:	Contract manufacturer that produces complete, finished products. Manufactures products for other brands, (to the design and specification of those brands) which the brand then distributes. Common business model, with many brands outsourcing some or all of their production (to OEMs).	
Phase	:	A period within a design program that is identified as having a particular focus of activity and/or outcome.	
Pilot Run	:	An initial small production run produced as a check prior to commencing full-scale production. The pilot run provides an opportunity to further refine assembly process or identify any remaining issues with the design or manufactured parts, thereby saving time & $ in the transition to full production.	
Program	:	A body of design work for a single organisation, typically involving multiple projects. Alternatively a piece of computer software, increasingly called apps or applications.	
Project	:	A specific, defined design task. In this context often a product. May also be more narrowly defined, such as a piece of stand-alone research or a conceptual exploration used to gather knowledge without necessarily being intended for production.	
Proposal	:	Stated approach to a design project. This is a response to a brief.	
Prototype	:	A model made during the design process to assess aspects of the design prior to manufacture. Usually physical, but may take other forms, including on-screen or even Post-it notes. For glossary of terms relating to prototyping see separate article, (coming soon!)	
Quality Assurance	:	Quality assurance (QA) attempts to improve and stabilize production (and associated processes) to avoid, or at least minimize, issues which lead to a product’s defects.	
Quality Control	:	Quality control (QC) is a process in which the quality of all factors involved in production is reviewed. It emphasizes testing of products to uncover defects and reporting to those who make the decision to allow or deny product release.	
Quality Management Systems	:	A quality management system (QMS) is a collection of business processes focused on achieving quality objectives to meet customer requirements. It is expressed as the organizational structure, policies, procedures, processes and resources needed to achieve the desired standard of quality.	
Rapid Prototyping (RP)	:	Various technologies for producing a prototype directly from 3D CAD data which produce a result far more quickly (typically within a couple of days) than traditional model-making.	
Rendering	:	An image of a proposed design which may be generated by various means including marker pens on paper, 2D software, or 3D CAD visualisation software. The detail provided in a rendering can range from quite abstract and suggestive to photorealistic. In layman’s terms, an ‘artist’s impression’. I have no idea why the term rendering is used…	
Research	:	May be undertaken at different times in a project, for different reasons. Common types are user research, competitor research, and research into materials and process.	
Sample	:	Item demonstrating one or more characteristics of a design. Can differ from a prototype in that a sample may represent a material or process, without necessarily being in the form of the design in progress.	
Scale	:	A ratio of size to allow documentation of designs that are too large or small to be documented effectively at true size. For example a chair may be drawn at 1:5 scale (one fifth of full size). A scale may also refer to a ruler with graduations to easily measure scaled drawings, but this is more common in architecture.	
Schematic	:	A structural or procedural diagram, especially of an electrical or mechanical system.	
Sketch	:	An image that is quick to generate and does not contain complete detail. Also used as an adjective, e.g. sketch model.	
SolidWorks	:	Brand of CAD software. Widely used platform for mechanical CAD.	
Styling Freeze	:	Point in time after which no further changes to the appearance are intended. This may be implicit and not formally identified.	
Tool, tooling	:	Catch-all phrase for dedicated elements of manufacturing equipment used for the mass production of components. Tooling is a general term which includes molds used for injection-molded plastic parts and dies used for cast metal parts. Investment in tooling often represents a major capital expense and time component of new product development programs.	
User	:	The person or people who will use the design. A product may have multiple users, for example ‘users’ of a piece of medical equipment may include the patient, the doctor, and technical staff.	
Vendor	:	A company that provides goods or services relating to the item being designed, typically prototype or production components. For design the term is largely interchangeable with ‘supplier’ (though this may be debated by a procurement specialist!). Vendor is more commonly used in the US.	
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
